# CS-305-TE674-Software-Security
The repository for my completed CS-305 assignments from SNHU.
Added prompt questions - 2/23/2022

# Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
My client, Artemis Financial, was a financial consulting company that works to develop individualized financial plans for saving, retirement, investments, and insurance for their patrons.
The issue they wished me to address was adding and ensuring there was proper security to their application.
# What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
I think I excelled at looking through the dependency check reports and confirming the vulnerabilities within them. I spent a lot of time working through reports and trying to ensure if there was a possible fix for the vulnerability. I also feel some sense of accomplishment and pride from being able to properly incorporate the SHA-256 hash function, as it was something wholly unfamiliar to me and I had to do a bit of research to learn how to do it.
It is important to code securely as you do not want anyone to take advantage of or exploit your program and be able to access things they should not be able to. Whether this means causing problems for you, or perhaps getting important and personal information from others.
If a company has very secure software, it means they can be relied upon with something important and personal like financial information in the scenario of Artemis Financial. If a company can be seen as trusthworthy, they will most likely have more clients. And in the opposite spectrum, if a company does not have software security, it means their customers information could be compromised, which would lead to less clients overall because their reputation could be tarnished.
# What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?
First learning how to work with the dependency check reports was a little challenging, as at first I did not know what any of the terminology meant. Over time, with more exposure and experience working with it, I began to understand how it worked more and what to look for when I researched certain vulnerabilities. The dependency check is an extremely useful tool, not perfect of course but it is still helpful in expediting the process of finding vulnerabilities.
Other aspects of vulnerability assessment that were challenging was manual code reviews, when you are unfamiliar wih what the code is and what it does, it can be increasingly difficult to discern what is vulnerable aspect of the code, and what is normal. If you don't know what you are looking for how can you discern where the problems lie?
This is something that even now I still struggle with, and will need much more experience with the code to understand where to look.
# How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?
Increasing layers of security is just in general best practice. It is possible to brute-strength force through some types of security. Therefore, by layering it and adding more levels of security, even should one type of security be bypassed somehow you would have additional layers to back it up, this also is generally useful by shoring up any weak spots in an application for example.
Through most of my work with Artemis Financial, for example, most of the vulnerabilities came from using outdated dependencies or software, over time vulnerabilities are found and solutions to these vulnerabilities are created, so strategies for the future would be to keep up to date with your dependencies in the event some vulnerabilities are discovered and remedied.
# How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
I ensured the code was functional by getting the expected output, it took some time to work through and re-test to ensure it was as it should be. A learning experience for sure. Once I was getting functional output I had run another dependency check to ensure the vulnerabilities present in that test were not new (or things I had not seen before) which would be able to tell me if the code I had refactored was not causing any of the problems. Since this was my second output for a dedpendency check report I could immediately see if anything new was added, and from what I understood no new vulnerablities seemed present.
# What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?
Primarily I would google search anything on the type of work I was doing, in the case of learning about SHA-256, I tried researching that topic specifically and seeing what resources I could find online. Much of this course was brand new to me and I didn't know anything about it and research was required to further my understanding and learning. Stack Overflow also had some relevant and reliable tidbits of help on certain aspects, but for the most part it wasn't consistently leveragable to what I needed to do for any specific assignment so I did not rely on this very much.
I will take this experience from having to do extra research on a topic to learn something new and keep it with me as a useful skill for help in further assignments in other courses.
# Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?
I would most likely showcase my learned ability to work through a dependency check report and confirming which vulnerabilities needed special attention, like if there was a fix or not. I remember specifically spending a large amount of time checking all of the listed CVE's on the report and researching each one thoroughly to ensure I did not miss anything, this was something I have done several times over looping through a report, so I feel I have become very familiar and experienced with dependency checks.
As mentioned above I am also proud of my recreation of my SHA-256 hash function and it may be something I keep with me for use in the future, and perhaps a future employer may see some value in that so it may be an item I showcase.
